## Verb Surgical Presentation

Hi everyone! Thanks for inviting me to your wonderful office and giving me a shot at this position at Verb, I'm very excited to be here, tell you a bit about myself and learn more about the company and the work that you guys are doing here.

Please feel free to stop me if you have questions or need clarifications about something during the presentation.

I was brought up in India, where I did my early schooling and bachelors. I was a curious kid, and I always enjoyed making things or just trying to see how things worked. As a kid I was known to break a lot of toys, electronics, watches and fooled around my dad's car much to my familys displeasure.I was curious about about how things worked and if i learned how they worked, i could make them myself.

So I decided to get into Enginnering and I chose Mechatronics becuase I felt that would give me the broadest overview into enginnering, as it had bits of mechanical, electrical and electronics enginnering. Also because it sounded way cooler than all the other courses in Manipal. During my time in school, we were seeing the first phase of the revolution that was happening on the modern web, the iPhone had been released and people in garages were building these cool apps that were making a big impact on our life at work and at home. Things like Evernote, Google, Dropbox were coming out and I thought that this was super intresting. I thought that this was super intresting and felt like that was a field i wanted to be a part of. 

So after school I joined Infosys, which is a big IT company in India, which before placing people in active projects trains engineers for 6 months in software engineering. I thought that this was great, I would get to learn software, get a job and also have an opportunity to explore my curiosity about information technology space. 

So I did that for about 2 years as a test engineer doing testing on webservices, but never totally connected with it. As a side hobby i was part of an internal design group which was making posters for events happening on the Infosys campus. It was through this group I discovered this thing called UX design. I later decided to quit my job, found work as a front enginner at Fractal Ink and began focusing on building a portfolio and applied to design schools. 

I got my acceptance from Domus Academy in Milan, which was a revealtory expereince for me. It was a new culture, new mindset of enviosioning products and services through design thinking and it exposed me to working with a team of people from multi dscliplinary background and different cultures. I learned a lot during my time there. 

I later joined Siemens Healthcare as an intern position and worked on the design and prototyping of Utrasound devices. I helped synthesize research, and contributed to developing the new platform for the future range of Ultrasound devices from Siemens. 

For the past 2 years I have been in a leading role as a UX designer, to bring this platform to the Cardiology Ultrasound device from Siemens which was long due for an update. The challenge was to improve the walk up usability of the product and have workflow that was equivalent or better than the current competitors like Philips and GE. As i was the only designer during the initial phase of the project, I was responsible for setting up a plan for the initial research and the control panel design. Since it was an agressive schedule we went for a lean approach. We leveraged research done over the previous years and internal knowledge to develop our initial concepts. Then we went out to test these concepts externally but also incorporated user research into our plan. 

Initially we went broad and then as we progressed through our plans of conducting formative evaluations we started to focus on detailed workflows for specific features. In all we conducted 1 internal formative evauations internally and 2 formative evaluations with external users to come to our final design. I'd like to talk in more detail about the 2nd formative evaluation we conducted where we conducted research and evaluations in USa, Germany and China with over 40 users in total. 

As part of the brief the plan for the Cardiology device was to harmonize with the common platform that was being developed for all Ultrasound devices at Siemens, but our Cardilogy Product manager had concerns with one aspect of the platform that he wasn't sold on. The common platform was introducing a trackpad as the main input device, which is unheard of in the Ultrasound market. Cardiology users especially make a lot of measuremetns on images and that requires precision control fromt the input device. Although the trackpad could open up possibilities for gestures and imporved cleanability, there were concerns about the precision control that Cardiology users required which we had learnt during initial research phases. 

So as part of the 2nd formative evaluation, our plan was to validate the use of the trackpad for the Cardiology device along with testing the control panel concepts we had developed. We were also conducting contextual inquiries by meeting cardiologists and sonograhers at hospitals to gather more knowledge about our users. I along with a newly recruited colleague planned the research and worked with external partners in recruiting and setting up the test facilities. As much as this process was intense and stressful at times, this has been the most exciting part of the project till date. For about a month we were travelling across the globe and talking to users, visting them in hospitals and learning more about the Cardiology market everyday. It was great! The results on the other hand were not so great at least from the perspective of the management team  - 

I'll give you few more details about the research plan and i'll get to findings of our research. 

I bring deep curiosty and emptahy for users with a pink of business pragmatism. 
I care not only about the design but about the process that needs to be developed to make good design possible and sustainable.


